=== PAGE 164 ===
Curriculum Alignment 
EachAPendorsedprovideroffersacompletecurriculumandsyllabusforteacherstoadopt.
Teachers can also choose to create their own curriculum and syllabus based on the AP 
Computer Science Principles course framework. Because AP Computer Science Principles is 
presented as big ideas instead of units, teachers who choose to create their own curriculum 
andsyllabuswillneedtodeveloptheirownunitplanstoscaffoldandintegratethebigideas
and skills in this course. 
To aid in the sequencing of your course and assigning the Topic Questions from  
AP Classroom, we have provided a blank Unit at a Glance page. This page can be replicated as 
you plan your units and align the topics you intend to cover in that unit. It is important to note 
that the big ideas in this course are themes that should be spiraled throughout the course, 
rather than taught in isolation as units. When creating a unit plan, it is common for teachers to 
pair content from multiple big ideas and skills. 
While we have segmented each big idea into topics, there may be times when you introduce 
part of a topic in one unit and revisit it one or more times in future units. In these cases, there 
may be some Topic Questions that students can answer during the initial introduction of the 
topic, while other questions would be more appropriate to use later in the school year. You 
can preview questions in AP Classroom before assigning them to students. When pacing out 
the number of class periods to spend on each topic, be sure to include time for students to 
complete the corresponding Topic Questions. 
If you choose an AP endorsed provider, check to see if they have developed their own Unit 
at a Glance chart or something similar that can be printed and added to this section. This 
document should align the provider curriculum to the AP Computer Science Principles Course 
and Exam Description and indicate where it may be appropriate to assign formative Topic 
Questions in AP Classroom.
AP Computer Science Principles Course and Exam Description
Curriculum Alignment V.1 | 157
Return to Table of Contents
© 2023 College Board

=== PAGE 165 ===
Unit at a Glance
Unit 
 : 
This page provides a place to plan instruction and unit pacing for this course. When planning, be sure to:
Bullet Select topics from multiple big ideas to create units.
Bullet Select activities and lessons that best facilitate students’ learning and practice of the required content and skills.
Bullet Schedule time for students to complete the Topic Questions from AP Classroom at home or in class.
Bullet Meet the curricular requirement by including at least three investigations into computing innovations and 
coveringthebeneficialandharmfuleffects,howtheinnovationusesdata,andanyprivacy,security,orstorage
concerns.
Bullet Allow 9 hours in class for students to complete the Create performance task.
Topic
Learning Objectives 
and Skills
Topic Questions
Class Periods
Instructional Planning/Resources
AP Computer Science Principles Course and Exam Description
Curriculum Alignment V.1
|
158
Return to Table of Contents
© 2023 College Board

=== PAGE 166 ===
Topic
Learning Objectives 
and Skills
Topic Questions
Class Periods
Instructional Planning/Resources
AP Computer Science Principles Course and Exam Description
Curriculum Alignment V.1 | 159
Return to Table of Contents
© 2023 College Board

=== PAGE 167 ===
THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.

=== PAGE 168 ===
Exam 
Information
AP COMPUTER SCIENCE PRINCIPLES
Exam 
Information

=== PAGE 170 ===
Exam Overview
The AP Computer Science Principles Exam assesses student understanding  
of the computational thinking practices and learning objectives outlined in  
the course framework. The exam consists of the Create performance task  
and an end-of-course AP Exam. The Create performance task requires at  
least 9 hours of dedicated class time for students to complete. The end-of-
course exam is 3 hours long and includes 70 multiple-choice questions and 
2 written response questions related to their Create performance task. The 
two questions include four distinct prompts: Written Response 1, Written 
Response 2(a), Written Response 2(b), and Written Response 2(c). Students 
will be given their student-authored Personalized Project Reference to use 
when answering these written response prompts.
The multiple-choice section will include three different types of questions 
(in the following order on the exam): single-select questions, single-select 
questions with a reading passage about a computing innovation, and 
multi-select questions. As part of the exam, students will be given the 
Exam Reference Sheet (see Appendix), which contains both block-based 
and text-based programming constructs and establishes a common way to 
communicate programming concepts for the purpose of the exam. The details 
of the exam, including weighting and timing, can be found below:
AP Computer Science Principles Course and Exam Description
Exam Information V.1 | 163
Return to Table of Contents
© 2023 College Board

=== PAGE 171 ===
TheAPExamassesseseachofthefivebigideasofthecoursewiththefollowingweightingonthemultiple-
choice section:
Big Ideas
Exam Weighting
Big Idea 1: Creative Development
10 hyphrn 13 percentage
Big Idea 2: Data
17 hyphrn 22 percentage
Big Idea 3: Algorithms and Programming
30 hyphrn 35 percentage
Big Idea 4: Computer Systems and Networks
11 hyphrn 15 percentage
Big Idea 5: Impact of Computing
21 hyphrn 26 percentage
Questions in Big Ideas 1, 2, and 3 can be represented as algorithms (with no program code) or as program code 
using the Exam Reference Sheet (see Appendix). The program code questions will contain some graphical 
representations, some of which use robots in a grid. 
Section
Question Type/Component
Number of 
Questions
Exam 
Weighting
Timing
I
Multiple-choice questions
70 
70%
120 minutes
End-of-course 
AP Exam
Single-select
57
Single-select with reading passage about a 
computing innovation
5
Multi-select 
8
II
Create Performance Task
See Below
30%
See Below
Program code, video, and Personalized 
Project Reference
At least 9 hours in 
class
Written response questions related to the 
Create performance task
2
60 minutes
End-of-course AP 
Exam
AP Computer Science Principles Course and Exam Description
Exam Information V.1 | 164
Return to Table of Contents
© 2023 College Board

=== PAGE 172 ===
How Student Learning Is 
Assessed on the AP Exam 
The AP Computer Science Principles computational thinking practices are assessed on the AP Exam as 
detailed below.
Section I: Multiple Choice 
TheAPComputerSciencePrinciplesExammultiple-choicesectionhas70totalquestions,including65individual
questionsandonesetoffivequestionsthatusesareadingpassageaboutacomputinginnovationasastimulus.
AllcomputationalthinkingpracticesexceptComputationalThinkingPractice6areassessedinthemultiple-choice
section, with the following exam weighting:
Computational Thinking Practice
Exam Weighting
Practice 1: Computational Solution Design
18 hyphrn 25 percentage
Practice 2: Algorithms and Program Development
20 hyphrn 28 percentage
Practice 3: Abstraction in Program Development
7 hyphrn 12 percentage
Practice 4: Code Analysis
12 hyphrn 19 percentage
Practice 5: Computing Innovations
28 hyphrn 33 percentage
SINGLE-SELECT QUESTIONS WITH READING PASSAGE
ThesetoffivequestionsassociatedwithareadingpassageaboutacomputinginnovationassessComputational
Thinking Practices 3 and 5. The following is an example reading passage. 
Reading Passage
A chain of retail stores uses software to manage telephone calls from customers. The 
system was recently upgraded. Customers interacted with the original system using their 
phone keypad. Customers interact with the upgraded system using their voice.
The upgraded system (but not the original system) stores all information from the calling 
session in a database for future reference. This includes the customer’s telephone 
number and any information provided by the customer (name, address, order number, 
credit card number, etc.).
Theoriginalsystemandtheupgradedsystemaredescribedinthefollowingflowcharts.
Eachflowchartusesthefollowingblocks.
Block
Explanation
Oval 
The start of the algorithm 
Parallelogram An input or output step 
Diamond 
A conditional or decision step, where execution proceeds to the side labeled “Yes” if the 
answer to the question is yes and to the side labeled “No” if the answer to the question is no 
Rectangle 
The result of the algorithm 
Exam Information V.1 | 165
Return to Table of Contents
© 2023 College Board
AP Computer Science Principles Course and Exam Description

=== PAGE 173 ===
AP Computer Science Principles Course and Exam Description
Exam Information V.1 | 166
Return to Table of Contents
© 2023 College Board

=== PAGE 174 ===
All reading passage questions will be worded in a similar way. The following are 
examples of types of questions associated with reading passage questions; note that 
onlyfiveoftheseexampleswouldbeincludedwithanyonereadingpassage.Thetext
in italics will vary by question, while the remainder of the prompt will be consistently 
used in all reading passage questions. This Call Center reading passage and a subset 
of its associated set of questions can be found in the Sample Exam Questions section 
startingonpage172.AfullsetoffivequestionsfortheCall Center reading passage 
can be found in the question bank in AP Classroom. 
Practice 3: Abstraction in Program Development
§Bullet Which of the following input data [must be obtained/is needed] by the upgraded 
system that was NOT needed by the original system?
§Bullet Which of the following data is not [obtained/provided] directly from the user but is 
necessary for the upgraded system to operate as described?
§Bullet Which of the following data is necessary for the Call Center to process in order to 
enable it to provide an answer to the caller?
§Bullet Which of the following is [LEAST/MOST] likely to be included in the directory?
Practice 5: Computing Innovations
§Bullet Whichofthefollowingisconsideredapotentialeffect of the application rather than 
a [function/purpose] of the application?
§Bullet Which of the following is [LEAST/MOST] likelytobea[benefit/harm] of storing the 
information from each calling session in a database?
§Bullet Ofthefollowingpotentialbenefits,whichis[LEAST/MOST] likely to be provided by 
the upgraded system?
§Bullet Which of the following may be anunintendedeffect of the use of Call Center?
§Bullet Which of the following is the [LEAST/MOST] [likely/plausible] data [privacy/security/
storage] concern of the upgraded system?
§Bullet Which of the following groups is [LEAST/MOST] likely to receive targeted 
advertisements?
§Bullet Which of the following statements is [LEAST/MOST] likely to be true about the 
tradeoffsofthe Call Center recording the caller’s phone number?
Section II: Create Performance Task
The second section of the AP Computer Science Principles Exam consists of a 
through-courseperformancetaskwherestudentswilldevelopacomputerprogram
of their choice and a written response section based on the performance task that is 
completedduringtheend-of-courseAPexam.Studentswillbeprovided9hoursofin-
classtimetocompletetheirprogram,video,andPersonalizedProjectReference.
Ontheend-of-courseAPexam,studentswillrespondtofourdistinctprompts,Written
Response 1, Written Response 2(a), Written Response 2(b), and Written Response 2(c), 
relatedtothecodecontainedinthestudent-authoredPersonalizeProjectReference.
Students will have access to this reference while responding to these prompts. The 
four categories listed below align to the four prompts.
Exam Information V.1 | 167
Retur
=== PAGE 175 ===
Prompt Category
Related Learning Objectives
Written  
Response 1: 
Program Design, 
Function, and 
Purpose
Students should be prepared to respond to prompts about their 
program that assess any of the following learning objectives:
Bullet CRD-2.A: Describe the purpose of a computing innovation. 
§Bullet CRD-2.B: Explain how a program or code segment functions. 
§Bullet CRD-2.C: Identify input(s) to a program.
§Bullet CRD-2.D: Identify output(s) produced by a program.
Bullet CRD-2.E: Develop a program using a development process.
§Bullet CRD-2.F: Design a program and its user interface.
Bullet CRD-2.G: Describe the purpose of a code segment or 
program by writing documentation.
Written  
Response 2(a): 
Algorithm 
Development
Students should be prepared to respond to prompts about their 
program that assess any of the following learning objectives: 
§Bullet CRD-2.B: Explain how a program or code segment functions.
§Bullet AAP-2.E.b: Evaluate expressions that use relational operators.
§Bullet AAP-2.F.b: Evaluate expressions that use logic operators.
§Bullet AAP-2.H.b: Determine the result of conditional statements.
Bullet AAP-2.J: Express an algorithm that uses iteration without 
using a programming language.
§Bullet AAP-2.K.b: Determine the result or side effect of iteration 
statements.
Bullet AAP-2.L: Compare multiple algorithms to determine if they 
yield the same side effect or result.
§Bullet AAP-2.M.a: Create algorithms.
Bullet AAP-2.M.b: Combine and modify existing algorithms.
Written  
Response 2(b): 
Errors and 
Testing
Students should be prepared to respond to prompts about their 
program that assess any of the following learning objectives:
§Bullet CRD-2.I.a: Identify the error.
Bullet CRD-2.I.b: Correct the error.
§Bullet CRD-2.J: Identify inputs and corresponding expected outputs 
or behaviors that can be used to check the correctness of an 
algorithm or program. 
Written  
Response 2(c):  
Data and 
Procedural 
Abstraction
Students should be prepared to respond to prompts about their 
program that assess any of the following learning objectives:
§Bullet AAP-1.D.a: Develop data abstraction using lists to store 
multiple elements. 
Bullet AAP-1.D.b: Explain how the use of data abstraction manages 
complexity in program code. 
Bullet AAP-2.O.a: Write iteration statements to traverse a list.
Bullet AAP-2.O.b: Determine the result of an algorithm that 
includes list traversals. 
Bullet AAP-3.B: Explain how the use of procedural abstraction 
manages complexity in a program. 
AP Computer Science Principles Course and Exam Description
Exam Information V.1 | 168
Return to Table of Contents
© 2023 College Board

=== PAGE 176 ===
The second section of the AP Computer Science Principles Exam assesses 
Computational Thinking Practices 1, 2, 3, and 4 across six rubric rows. 
§Bullet Course Project: Video assesses students’ ability to implement and apply an 
algorithm. (Skill 2.B) 
§Bullet Course Project: Program Requirements assesses students’ ability to implement 
and apply an algorithm. (Skill 2.B)
§Bullet Written Response 1: Program Design, Function, and Purpose assesses students’ 
ability to investigate the situation, context, or task. (Skill 1.A)
§Bullet Written Response 2(a): Algorithm Development assesses students’ ability to 
explain how a code segment of program functions. (Skill 4.A)
§Bullet Written Response 2(b): Errors and Testing assesses students’ ability to identify 
and correct errors in algorithms and programs, including error discovery through 
testing. (Skill 4.C)
§Bullet Written Response 2(c): Data and Procedural Abstraction assesses students’ 
ability to explain how abstraction manages complexity. (Skill 3.C)
Exam Information V.1 | 169
Return to Table of Contents
© 2023 College Board
AP Computer Science Principles Course and Exam Description

=== PAGE 177 ===
Performance Task 
Verbs 
The following task verbs are commonly used in the performance task and 
written responses: 
Capture: Select a portion of program code that addresses the prompt(s). 
Demonstrate:Providesufficientevidenceforananswerorpointbeingmade.
Describe: Provide the relevant features or characteristics of what the 
program code represents or is being used to accomplish. 
Design:Developaplanforhowtoaccomplishtheprogramspecificationor
requirements. 
Explain: Provide information about how or why a relationship, situation, or 
outcome occurs, listing detailed steps of the algorithm or using evidence and/
or reasoning. 
Identify: Provideanameforthespecifictopic,withoutelaboration
or explanation.
Implement/Write:Recognizeandusepropersyntaxtoexecutethe 
program design.
AP Computer Science Principles Course and Exam Description
Exam Information V.1 | 170
Return to Table of Contents
© 2023 College Board

=== PAGE 178 ===
Preparing for the 
Create Performance 
Task
Academic Integrity and Plagiarism Policy
This policy addresses plagiarism and academic integrity in completing the Create 
Performance Task.
Plagiarism
The use of program code, media (e.g., video, images, sound), data, information, or 
evidence created by someone else or with generative AI tools in the creation of a 
program and/or a program code segment(s), without appropriate acknowledgment (i.e., 
through citation, through attribution, and/or by reference), is considered plagiarism.  
A student who commits plagiarism will receive a score of 0 on the Create performance 
task,includingtheirresponsestothewrittenresponsepromptsontheend-of-course
AP Exam.
To the best of their ability, teachers will ensure that students understand how to 
ethically incorporate ideas that are not their own and provide credit to the original 
creator or source, as well as the consequences of plagiarism. 
Acceptable Generative AI Use
StudentsarepermittedtoutilizegenerativeAItoolsassupplementaryresourcesfor
understanding coding principles, assisting in code development, and debugging. This 
responsible use aligns with current guidelines for peer collaboration on developing code. 
Students should be aware that generative AI tools can produce incomplete code, 
codethatcreatesorintroducesbiases,codewitherrors,inefficienciesinhowthe
codeexecutes,orcodecomplexitiesthatmakeitdifficulttounderstandandtherefore
explain the code. It is the student’s responsibility to review and understand any code 
co-writtenwithAItools,ensuringitsfunctionality.Additionally,studentsmustbe
preparedtoexplaintheircodeindetail,asrequiredontheend-of-courseAPExam.
Preparing for Final Submission
StudentsarenotpermittedtocollaborateonthevideoorcreationofthePersonalized
Project Reference.
ThePersonalizedProjectReferencecannotincludecoursecontentorcomments
within the code or on any other part of the reference. Including course content or 
commentsinthePersonalizedProjectReferencewillresultinstudentsreceivinga
score of 0 on the Create performance task, including their responses to the written 
responsepromptsontheend-of-courseAP Exam.
Attestations
DuringthefinalsubmissionprocessintheAPDigitalPortfolio,studentswillbeasked
to attest that they have followed the Performance Task guidelines and have not 
plagiarizedtheirsubmission.EachofthethreecomponentsoftheCreateperformance
Exam Information V.1 | 171
Return to Table of Contents
© 2023 College Board
AP Computer Science Principles Course and Exam Description

=== PAGE 179 ===
taskmustbesubmittedasfinaltobesentforscoring.Additionally,ifstudentsdonot
submittheirPersonalizedProjectReferencebythedeadline,theywillnothavethis
resource available on exam day to complete their written response section.
Preparing Students for the Task
Prior to students beginning a performance task, teachers should do the following with 
students: 
§Bullet Provide instruction, practice, and feedback related to content and skills that will 
help students succeed on the performance task. This can include, but needs 
not be limited to, the iterative development process, strategies for collaboration, 
the development of both data and procedural abstractions, describing an 
algorithm’s purpose and explaining how it functions, and identifying test data that 
demonstratesthedifferentoutcomesofanalgorithm.
§Bullet Brainstorm problems that programming can address or brainstorm special 
interests that students want to incorporate when developing a program. 
Bullet Assiststudentsindefiningtheirfocusandchoiceoftopicswithoutmaking
selections for them (e.g., by asking questions). 
§Bullet Review the performance task directions and provide multiple opportunities to 
practice and discuss all or part of the performance task. Formative performance 
task prompts can be assigned in AP Classroom. 
Bullet Explain the role the teacher can and cannot play in providing students with 
assistance during the actual performance task; teachers should encourage 
students to take advantage of the opportunity to get assistance and feedback 
from them during practice. 
§Bullet Inform students that they cannot submit any work from AP Central samples, 
curriculumprovidersamples,orpracticeperformancetasksfortheirfinal
submission.
Bullet Provide guidance to students about how they can use media or data sources in 
their program code and how to avoid plagiarism when doing so. Any media or data 
sources that have not been created by the student must be acknowledged, and 
credit must be given to the author.
§Bullet Provide guidance to students about how they can integrate existing program code 
into their own program and extend it in some new way by adding new functionality. 
Anyprogramcodethathasnotbeenwrittenbythestudent—includingstarter
codeprovidedbyyouastheirteacher,codefoundinAPIsoropen-sourcecode,
andcodegeneratedusingAItools—shouldbeacknowledged,andcreditshould
be given to the author. Some examples of ways to provide attribution for program 
code that was not authored by the student are as follows:
Bullet If the program code has been made available for use by their teacher, students 
should add a comment that states: This code was provided as starter code by 
my teacher.
Bullet IftheprogramcodehasbeenmadeavailablethroughanAPIoropen-source
code, students should add a comment that states: This code was made freely 
available by [source of code].
Bullet Iftheprogramcodeh
=== PAGE 180 ===
Bullet If the programming environment does not allow students to include comments, 
students can add comments in a document editor when they capture their 
program code for submission to acknowledge and give credit to another author.
Bullet ProvideexplicitinstructionsabouttheAPDigitalPortfoliofilesubmission
requirements and process to ensure that students’ work is sent for scoring. NOTE: All 
threecomponentsmustbesubmittedasfinalbythedeadlinepostedonAPCentral.
Onlyfilesthataresubmittedasfinalwillbesentforscoring.Additionally,ifstudents
donotsubmittheirPersonalizedProjectReferencebythedeadline,theywillnothave
this resource available on exam day to complete their written response section.
§Bullet Encourage students to keep a programming journal of the design choices made 
duringthedevelopmentoftheprogramcodeorcodesegmentandtheeffectof
these decisions on the program’s function. 
Administering the Performance Task
Once students have started their official administration of the performance task, 
teachers must:
§Bullet Provide a minimum of 9 hours of class time to complete this task.
§Bullet Informstudentsofthefinalsubmissiondateandtime,whichcanbefoundonthe
AP Computer Science Principles Exam page. Remind students that all three 
componentsmustbesubmittedasfinal.Onlyfilesthataresubmittedasfinalwillbe
sentforscoring.Additionally,ifstudentsdonotsubmittheirPersonalizedProject
Reference by the deadline, they will not have this resource available on exam day to 
complete their written response section.
§Bullet Carefully plan a calendar that provides time for all performance task components 
to be completed and uploaded in advance of the deadline.
§Bullet Ensure that students are aware of the performance task directions (found in the 
Student Handouts section).
§Bullet Allow students to collaborate only during the ideation and development, including 
debugging and error testing, of the program code, if they choose to do so. NOTE: 
students are not allowed to collaborate on their video or their Personalized 
Project Reference.
§Bullet Allow students’ interest to drive their choice of projects and programming 
languages. Encourage students to use a programming language they know well. 
The administration of the Create performance task is not the time to learn a new 
programming language.
§Bullet Assist in resolving technical problems that impede work, such as a failing 
workstationordifficultywithaccesstonetworks,ortohelpwithsavingfiles.
§Bullet Wait until after all three components of the students’ performance tasks have 
beencompletedandsubmittedasfinaltotheAPDigitalPortfoliobeforeproviding
feedback on those components and any practice written responses (if they are 
being considered as part of the class grade).
§Bullet Advise students that they may not revise their work once they have completed 
andsubmitteditasfinalto
