Total pages: 266
=== PAGE 1 ===
AP
® Computer 
Science 
Principles
COURSE AND EXAM DESCRIPTION
Effective  
Fall 2023
INCLUDES
 Course framework
  Instructional 
section
 
 Create performance
task guidelines
 
 

=== PAGE 2 ===
 
 
 
AP
® Computer
Science 
Principles 
COURSE AND EXAM DESCRIPTION 
Effective 
Fall 2023 
AP COURSE AND EXAM DESCRIPTIONS ARE UPDATED PERIODICALLY 
Please visit AP Central (apcentral.collegeboard.org) to determine whether a 
more recent course and exam description is available. 

=== PAGE 3 ===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What AP
® Stands For 
Thousands of Advanced Placement teachers have contributed to the principles 
articulated here. These principles are not new; they are, rather, a reminder of how AP 
already works in classrooms nationwide. The following principles are designed to ensure 
that teachers’ expertise is respected, required course content is understood, and that 
students are academically challenged and free to make up their own minds. 
1. AP
 
standsforclarityandtransparency.Teachersandstudentsdeserveclear 
expectations. The Advanced Placement Program makes public its course 
frameworks and sample assessments. Confusion about what is permitted in the 
classroom disrupts teachers and students as they navigate demanding work. 
2.  APisanunflinchingenc

ounterwithevidence.APcoursesenablestudentstodevelop 
as independent thinkers and to draw their own conclusions. Evidence and the 
scientificmethodarethestartingplaceforconversationsinAPcourses. 
3. APoppos

escensorship.APisanimatedbyadeeprespectfortheintellectual 
freedom of teachers and students alike. If a school bans required topics from their 
AP courses, the AP Program removes the AP designation from that course and 
its inclusion in the AP Course Ledger provided to colleges and universities. For 
example, the concepts of evolution are at the heart of college biology, and a course 
that neglects such concepts does not 
=== PAGE 4 ===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contents 
v Acknowledgments 
1 About AP 
4 AP Resources and Supports 
6 Instructional Model 
7 About the AP Computer Science Principles Course 
7 College Course Equivalent 
7 Prerequisites 
COURSE FRAMEWORK 
11 Introduction 
13 Course Framework Components 
15 Computational Thinking Practices 
17 Course Content 
20 Course at a Glance 
23 Big Idea Guides 
24 Using the Big Idea Guides 
27 BIG IDEA 1: Creative Development 
41 BIG IDEA 2: Data 
57 BIG IDEA 3: Algorithms and Programming 
97 BIG IDEA 4: Computer Systems and Networks 
109 BIG IDEA 5: Impact of Computing 
INSTRUCTIONAL APPROACHES 
129 Selecting and Using Course Materials 
132 Instructional Strategies 
140 Developing Computational Thinking Practices 
152 Using Strategies for Collaboration 
153 Differentiating Computer Science Instruction 
CURRICULUM ALIGNMENT 
157 Curriculum Alignment 
158 Unit at a Glance 
EXAM INFORMATION 
163 Exam Overview 
175 Sample Exam Questions 

=== PAGE 5 ===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCORING GUIDELINES 
188 Video, Program Requirements, and Written Response 1 
191 Written Response 2 
STUDENT HANDOUTS 
197 Create Performance Task 
203 Guidelines for Completing the Performance Task 
APPENDIX 
211 APPENDIX 1:  AP CSP Exam Reference Sheet 
219 APPENDIX 2:  AP CSP Conceptual Framework 

=== PAGE 6 ===
Acknowledgments 
In partnership with the National Science Foundation, the AP Program 
collaborated with secondary and postsecondary educators and members of 
computerscienceeducationprofessionalorganizationstodeveloptheAP 
Computer Science Principles course framework. 
College Board would like to acknowledge the contributors and reviewers for 
their assistance with and commitment to the development of this course. All 
individuals’namesandtheiraffiliationswerecurrentatthetimeofcontribution. 
Christine Alvarado, University of California, San Diego, CA 
Bradley Bearden, Dadeville High School, Dadeville, AL 
Daniel Bonarigo, Riverside Brookfield High School, Chicago, IL 
Adam Cannon, Columbia University, New York, NY 
Joseph Coglianese, Troy High School, Fullerton, CA 
Jacqueline Corricelli, West Hartford Public School, West Hartford, CT 
Tom Cortina, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 
Sandy Czajka, Riverside Brookfield High School, Riverside, IL 
Marilyn Fitzpatrick, Charles H. Flowers High School, Springdale, MD 
Dan Garcia, University of California, Berkeley, CA 
Jeff Gray, The University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, AL 
Jessica Jarboe, Milton High School, Milton, MA 
Brande Jones, Woodward Academy, College Park, GA 
Douglas Kiang, Punahou High School, Honolulu, HI 
Jennifer Rosato, The College of St. Scholastica, Duluth, MN 
Alexander Schenk, Collegiate School of Medicine and Bioscience, St. Louis, MO 
Cheryl Swanier, University of Massachusetts - Amh
=== PAGE 7 ===
Allison Thurber, Vice President, AP Curriculum and Assessment 
Jason VanBilliard, Senior Director, AP Math & Computer Science Department Head 
SPECIAL THANKS 
Jan Cuny, Owen Astrachan, Amy Briggs, and the National 
Science Foundation 
Return to Table of Contents 
© 2023 College Board 
AP Computer Science Principles Course and Exam Description
 
   
 V.1 | vi 

=== PAGE 8 ===
About AP 
College Board’s Advanced Placement® Program (AP®) 
enables willing and academically prepared students 
topursuecollege-levelstudies—withtheopportunity 
to earn college credit, advanced placement, or 
both—whilestillinhighschool.ThroughAPcourses 
in 38 subjects, each culminating in a challenging 
exam, students learn to think critically, construct solid 
arguments,andseemanysidesofanissue—skills 
that prepare them for college and beyond. Taking AP 
coursesdemonstratestocollegeadmissionofficers 
that students have sought the most challenging 
curriculum available to them, and research indicates 
that students who score a 3 or higher on an AP Exam 
typically experience greater academic success in 
college and are more likely to earn a college degree 
thannon-APstudents.EachAPteacher’ssyllabus 
is evaluated and approved by faculty from some of 
the nation’s leading colleges and universities, and AP 
Exams are developed and scored by college faculty and 
experiencedAPteachers.Mostfour-yearcollegesand 
universities in the United States grant credit, advanced 
placement, or both on the basis of successful AP 
Examscores—morethan3,300institutionsworldwide 
annually receive AP scores. 
AP Course Development 
Inanongoingefforttomaintainalignmentwithbest 
practicesincollege-levellearning,APcoursesand 
examsemphasizechallenging,research-based 
curricula aligned with higher education expectations. 
Teachers can 
=== PAGE 9 ===
The AP Course Audit form is submitted by the AP 
teacher and the school principal (or designated 
administrator)toconfirmawarenessandunderstanding 
of the curricular and resource requirements. A syllabus 
or course outline, detailing how course requirements 
are met, is submitted by the AP teacher for review by 
college faculty. 
How the AP Program 
Is Developed 
The scope of content for an AP course and exam is 
derivedfromananalysisofsyllabiandcourseofferings 
of colleges and universities. Using this research and 
data, a committee of college faculty and expert AP 
teachers work within the scope of the corresponding 
college course to articulate what students should 
know and be able to do upon the completion of the AP 
course. The resulting course framework is the heart 
of this course and exam description and serves as a 
blueprint of the content and skills that can appear on an 
AP Exam. 
The AP Test Development Committees are responsible 
for developing each AP Exam and ensuring the exam 
questions are aligned to the course framework. The AP 
Exam development process is a multiyear endeavor; all 
AP Exams undergo extensive review, revision, piloting, 
and analysis to ensure that questions are accurate, 
fair, and valid and that there is an appropriate spread of 
difficultyacrossthequestions. 
Throughout AP course and exam development, College 
Board gathers feedback from various stakeholders 
in both secondary schools and higher education 
institutions
=== PAGE 10 ===
BECOMING AN AP READER 
Each June, thousands of AP teachers and college 
faculty members from around the world gather for 
seven days in multiple locations or from home to 
evaluate and score the performance task section of the 
APExams.Ninety-eightpercentofsurveyededucators 
who took part in the AP Reading say it was a positive 
experience. 
There are many reasons to consider becoming an AP 
Reader, including opportunities to: 
Bullet
Return to Table of Cont
© 2023 College Boar
ents 
d 
AP Computer Science Principles Course and Exam Description
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
 V.1 | 3 
APReaders—bothhighschoolandcollege
educators—makeimprovementstothewaythey 
teach or score because of their experience at the 
AP Reading.
Bullet Gain in-depth understanding of AP Exam and 
AP scoring standards: AP Readers gain exposure 
to the quality and depth of the responses from the 
entire pool of AP Exam takers and thus are better 
able to assess their students’ work in the classroom.
Bullet Receive compensation: AP Readers are 
compensated for their work during the Reading. 
Expenses, lodging, and meals are covered for 
Readers who travel.
Bullet Score from home: AP Readers have online 
distributed scoring opportunities for certain 
subjects. Check the AP Reader site for details.
Bullet Earn Continuing Education Units (CEUs):  
AP Readers earn professional development hours 
and CEUs that can be applied to PD requirements 
by states, districts, and
=== PAGE 11 ===
AP Resources 
and Supports 
By completing a simple activation process at the start of the school year, teachers and 
students receive access to a robust set of classroom resources. 
AP Classroom 
AP Classroom is a dedicated online platform designed to support teachers and students 
throughout their AP experience. The platform includes a variety of powerful resources and 
tools to provide yearlong support to teachers and enable students to receive meaningful 
feedback on their progress. 
BIG IDEA GUIDES 
Appearing in this publication and on AP Classroom, these planning guides outline all required 
coursecontentandskills.Eachbigideaguideorganizescontentintotopicsandprovidestips 
on taking the AP Exam. 
TOPIC QUESTIONS 
Formative AP questions provide feedback to students on the areas where they need to focus 
and are designed to meet students where they are in the material. Topic Questions are best 
usedforspot-checkingstudentunderstandingwhileteachingthetopicsidentifiedinthe 
course framework. They can be used in class or as homework based on teacher preference. 
The questions can reveal misunderstandings and help teachers target content and skills to 
emphasizeinlessonsandhelpstudentsunderstandwhyanansweriscorrectorincorrect. 
Because the Topic Questions are formative, the results of these assessments cannot be used 
toevaluateteachereffectivenessorassignlettergradestostudents,andanysuchmisuses 
aregroundsforlosingscho
=== PAGE 12 ===
Digital Activation 
In order to teach an AP class and make sure students are registered to take the AP Exam, 
teachersmustfirstcompletethedigitalactivationprocess.Digitalactivationgivesstudents 
and teachers access to the available resources and gathers students’ exam registration 
information online, eliminating most of the answer sheet bubbling that has added to testing 
time and fatigue. 
Return to Table of Cont
© 2023 College Boar
ents 
d 
AP teachers and students begin by signing in to My AP and completing a simple activation 
process at the start of the school year, which provides access to all AP resources, including 
AP Classroom and AP Digital Portfolio. 
To complete digital activation: 
Bullet Teachers and students sign in to, or create, their College Board accounts. 
Bullet TeachersconfirmthattheyhaveaddedthecoursetheyteachtotheirAPCourseAudit 
account and have had it approved by their school’s administrator. 
Bullet Teachers or AP Coordinators, depending on who the school has decided is responsible, 
set up class sections so students can access AP resources and have exams ordered on 
their behalf. 
Bullet Students join class sections with a join code provided by their teacher or AP Coordinator. 
Bullet Studentswillbeaskedforadditionalregistrationinformationuponjoiningtheirfirstclass 
section, which eliminates the need for extensive answer sheet bubbling on exam day. 
While the digital activation process takes a short time fo
=== PAGE 13 ===
Instructional  
Model 
Whether teachers choose to develop their own curriculum or adopt an AP endorsed provider's 
curriculum, integrating AP resources throughout the course can help students develop skills 
and conceptual understandings. The instructional model outlined below shows possible ways 
to incorporate AP resources into the classroom. 
Plan 
Teachers may consider the following approaches as they plan their instruction. 
Bullet Review the overview at the start of each big idea guide to identify essential questions, 
conceptual understandings, and skills for each big idea. 
Bullet Use the Big Idea at a Glance table to identify related topics that build toward a common 
understanding across big ideas, and then group those topics into units or modules, 
ensuringappropriatesequencing,scaffolding,andpacingforstudents. 
Bullet Identify useful strategies in the Instructional Approaches section to help teach the 
concepts and skills. 
Teach 
When teaching, supporting resources can be used to build students’ conceptual 
understanding and mastery of skills. 
Bullet Use the topic pages in the big idea guides to identify the required content. 
Bullet Integratethecontentwithaskill,consideringanyappropriatescaffolding. 
Bullet Employanyoftheinstructionalstrategiesidentifiedduringtheplanningstage. 
Bullet Use the available resources on the topic pages to bring a variety of assets into 
the classroom. 
Assess 
Teachers can measure student understanding of t
=== PAGE 14 ===
About the  
AP Computer Science 
Principles Course 
APComputerSciencePrinciplesintroducesstudentstothebreadthofthefieldofcomputer 
science. In this course, students will learn to design and evaluate solutions and to apply 
computer science to solve problems through the development of algorithms and programs. 
They will incorporate abstraction into programs and use data to discover new knowledge. 
Students will also explain how computing innovations and computing systems, including the 
Internet, work, explore their potential impacts, and contribute to a computing culture that 
is collaborative and ethical. It is important to note that the AP Computer Science Principles 
coursedoesnothaveadesignatedprogramminglanguage.Teachershavetheflexibility 
to choose a programming language(s) that is most appropriate for their students to use in 
the classroom. 
College Course Equivalent 
APComputerSciencePrinciplesisequivalenttoanintroductory,college-levelbreadth course 
in computer science. 
Prerequisites 
It is recommended that students in the AP Computer Science Principles course have 
successfullycompletedafirst-yearhighschoolalgebracoursewithastrongfoundationof 
basiclinearfunctions,compositionoffunctions,andproblem-solvingstrategiesthatrequire 
multipleapproachesandcollaborativeefforts.Inaddition,studentsshouldbeabletousea 
Cartesian (x, y) coordinate system to represent points on a plane. It is important tha
=== PAGE 15 ===
THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK. 

=== PAGE 16 ===
AP COMPUTER SCIENCE PRINCIPLES 
Course 
Framework 

=== PAGE 18 ===
Introduction 
Computer science involves problem-solving, hardware, and algorithms 
that help people utilize computers and incorporate multiple perspectives 
to address real-world problems in contemporary life. As the application of 
computer science is integrated into more aspects of our lives, it is important 
to understand the impact of computer science and how to maintain privacy, 
safety, and security not only when using computers but also while being the 
innovators of new computing applications. The course strives to engage all 
students, including those who have traditionally been underrepresented in 
computer science—such as female students, students of color, students with 
disabilities, and rural students—by allowing them to discover the power of 
computer science through rewarding yet challenging concepts. 
Awell-designedAPComputerSciencePrinciples 
course that includes opportunities for students to 
collaborate to solve problems of their choice can help 
address traditional issues of equity and access. Such 
a course can broaden participation in computing while 
providing a strong and engaging introduction to the 
breadth of topics in the discipline. 
TheAPComputerSciencePrinciplescoursereflects 
what computer science teachers, professors, and 
researchers have indicated are the main goals of an 
introductory,college-levelcomputersciencecourse: 
Bullet Computational Solution Design—Designand 
evaluate computational solutions for a purpose. 
Bul
=== PAGE 19 ===
The AP Computer Science Principles course vertically 
aligns with the core concepts in the Computer 
Science Teachers Association (CSTA) K–12 
Computer Science Framework. Most of the K–12 
Core Practices and Concepts are extended in the 
AP Computer Science Principles course, and the 
expecteddepthofknowledgeissignificantlyhigher 
in the AP course. This vertical alignment allows CS 
teachers to make connections from earlier courses 
tothecollege-equivalentAPComputerScience 
Principles course. 
AP Computer Science Program 
AP Computer Science Principles is one of two AP 
Computer Science courses available to students. 
The AP Computer Science A course complements 
AP Computer Science Principles through a focused 
study of the Algorithms and Programming big idea. 
Students can take these two courses in either order or 
concurrently, as allowed by their school. 
Resource Requirements 
Students should have access to a computer system(s) 
that contains appropriate software to create and edit 
programs and allows students to practice, complete, 
and submit the AP Computer Science Principles 
performance task. The computer must have Internet 
access and be able to access the sites necessary 
for students to be successful in the course and 
assessment. The school ensures that each student 
has access to the AP Computer Science Principles 
Exam Reference Sheet (see Appendix), as well as 
performance task directions. The school ensures that 
eachstudenthasacollege-leve
=== PAGE 20 ===
Course Framework  
Components 
Overview 
This course framework provides a description of what students should know and 
be able to do to qualify for college credit or placement. 
The course framework includes two 
essential components: 
 
1 
COMPUTATIONAL THINKING PRACTICES 
The computational thinking practices are central to the study and 
practice of computer science. Students should practice and develop 
these skills on a regular basis over the span of the course. 
2 
COURSE CONTENT 
Thecoursecontentisorganizedintobigideas,whicharecross-cutting 
concepts that build conceptual understanding and spiral throughout the 
course. The content and conceptual understandings within the big ideas 
reflectwhatcollegesanduniversitiestypicallyexpectstudentstomaster 
to qualify for college credit and/or placement. 
AP Computer Science Principles Course and Exam Description
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
CourseFramework V.1 | 13 
Return to Table of Contents 
© 2023 College Board 

=== PAGE 21 ===
THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK. 

=== PAGE 22 ===
AP Computer Science Principles Course and Exam Description
 
  
 
   
1 
AP COMPUTER SCIENCE PRINCIPLES 
Computational 
Thinking 
Practices 
The table that follows presents the computational thinking practices that 
students should develop during the AP Computer Science Principles course. The 
practices form the basis of tasks on the AP Exam. 
The learning objectives found in the big idea guides are each aligned to one of 
the skills from a practice. Teachers will want to be sure to integrate the practices 
and the course content with enough repetition to prepare students to transfer 
these skills when taking the AP Exam. 
More detailed information about teaching the computational thinking practices 
can be found in the Instructional Approaches section of this publication. 
CourseFramework V.1 | 15 
Return to Table of Contents 
© 2023 College Board 

=== PAGE 23 ===
AP COMPUTER SCIENCE PRINCIPLES 
Computational Thinking  
Practices: Skills 
Practice 1 
Practice 2 
Practice 3 
Practice 4 
Practice 5 
Practice 6 
Computational 
Solution 
Design 1 
Design and evaluate 
computational solutions 
for a purpose. 
Algorithms 
and Program 
Development 
2 
Develop and implement 
algorithms. 
Abstraction 
in Program 
Development 3 
Develop programs that 
incorporate abstractions. 
Code 
Analysis 
4 
Evaluate and test 
algorithms and programs. 
Computing 
Innovations 5 
Investigate computing 
innovations. 
Responsible 
Computing 
6 
Contribute to an 
inclusive, safe, 
collaborative, and ethical 
computing culture. 
SKILLS 
1.A Investigate 
the situation, 
context, or task. 
1.B Determine 
and design an 
appropriate 
method or 
approach to 
achieve the 
purpose. 
1.C  Explainhow 
collaboration 
affectsthe 
development of a 
solution. 
1.D  Evaluate 
solution options. 
2.A  Represent 
algorithmic 
processes 
without using a 
programming 
language. 
2.B  Implement 
and apply an 
algorithm. 
3.A  Generalize 
data sources 
through variables. 
3.B  Use 
abstraction 
to manage 
complexity in a 
program. 
3.C  Explain 
how abstraction 
manages 
complexity. 
4.A  Explainhow 
a code segment 
or program 
functions. 
4.B  Determine 
the result of code 
segments. 
4.C  Identifyand 
correct errors 
in algorithms 
and programs, 
including error 
discovery through 
testing. 
5.A  Explain 
how computing 
systems work. 
5.B  Explainhow 
knowledge 
=== PAGE 24 ===
continued on next page 
AP Computer Science Principles Course and Exam Description
 
   
2 
AP COMPUTER SCIENCE PRINCIPLES 
Course 
Content 
Based on the Understanding by Design® (Wiggins and McTighe) model, this 
course framework provides a description of the course requirements necessary 
for student success, with a focus on big ideas that encompass core principles, 
theories, and processes of the discipline. The framework also encourages 
instruction that prepares students for advanced computer science coursework 
anditsintegrationintoawidearrayofSTEM-relatedfields. 
Big Ideas 
The big ideas serve as the foundation of the course and help students create 
meaningful connections among concepts. They are often overarching concepts 
or themes that become threads that run throughout the course. Revisiting the 
big ideas and applying them in a variety of contexts enables students to develop 
deeper conceptual understanding. Below are the big ideas of the course and a 
brief description of each. 
BIG IDEA 1: CREATIVE DEVELOPMENT (CRD) 
When developing computing innovations, developers can use a formal, 
iterative design process or a less rigid process of experimentation. While 
using either approach, developers will encounter phases of investigating 
andreflecting,designing,prototyping,andtesting.Additionally, 
collaboration is an important tool at any phase of development, because 
considering multiple perspectives allows for improvement of innovations. 
BIG IDEA
=== PAGE 25 ===
BIG IDEA 3: ALGORITHMS AND PROGRAMMING (AAP) 
Programmers integrate algorithms and abstraction to create programs 
for creative purposes and to solve problems. Using multiple program 
statementsinaspecifiedorder,makingdecisions,andrepeatingthesame 
process multiple times are the building blocks of programs. Incorporating 
elementsofabstraction—bybreakingproblemsdownintointeracting 
pieces,eachwiththeirownpurpose—makeswritingcomplexprograms 
easier. Programmers need to think algorithmically and use abstraction to 
defineandinterpretprocessesthatareusedinaprogram. 
BIG IDEA 4: COMPUTING SYSTEMS AND NETWORKS (CSN) 
Computer systems and networks are used to transfer data. One of the 
largest and most commonly used networks is the Internet. Through a series 
of protocols, the Internet can be used to send and receive information and 
ideas throughout the world. Transferring and processing information can be 
slow when done on a single computer, but leveraging multiple computers to 
dotheworkatthesametimecansignificantlyshortenthetimeittakesto 
complete tasks or solve problems. 
BIG IDEA 5: IMPACT OF COMPUTING (IOC) 
Computersandcomputinghaverevolutionizedourlives.Tousecomputing 
safely and responsibly, we need to be aware of privacy, security, and 
ethical issues. As programmers, we need to understand the potential 
impacts of our programs and be responsible for the consequences. 
Ascomputerusers,weneedtounderstand
=== PAGE 26 ===
AP Computer Science Principles Course and Exam Description
 
 
 
 
 
   
ThefivebigideasinAPComputerSciencePrinciples,andtheirweightingonthe 
multiple-choicesectionoftheAPExam,arelistedbelow. 
TOPICS 
Each big idea is broken down into teachable segments called topics. The topic 
pages (starting on page 32) contain all required content for each topic. Although 
most topics can be taught in one or two class periods, teachers are encouraged 
to pace their course to suit the needs of their students and school. 
Big Ideas 
Exam Weighting 
Big Idea 1: Creative Development 
10 Hyphen 13 Percentage
Big Idea 2: Data 
17 Hyphen 22 Percentage
Big Idea 3: Algorithms and Programming 
30 Hyphen 35 Percentage
Big Idea 4: Computer Systems and Networks 
11 Hyphen 15 Percentage
Big Idea 5: Impact of Computing 
21 Hyphen 26 Percentage
CourseFramework V.1 | 19 
Return to Table of Contents 
© 2023 College Board 

=== PAGE 27 ===
Course at 
a Glance 
Plan 
The Course at a Glance provides 
ausefulvisualorganization 
of the AP Computer Science 
Principles curricular 
components, including the 
following: 
Bullet Big ideas, along with 
approximate weighting 
Bullet Progression of topics within 
each big idea 
Bullet Spiraling of practices across 
big ideas 
This Course at a Glance is 
organizedbybigideasrather 
than units of instruction. Within 
each big idea are topics. 
Teachers and AP endorsed 
providers can group topics 
together to create units  
or modules. 
Teach 
COMPUTATIONAL THINKING 
PRACTICES  
Practices spiral across big ideas. 
1 
Computational 
Solution Design 
2 
Algorithms 
and Program 
Development 
3 
Abstraction 
in Program 
Development
4  Code Analysis 
5 
Computing 
Innovations 
6 
Responsible 
Computing 
Assess 
AssigntheTopicQuestions— 
either as homework or in 
class—foreachbigidea.The 
Topic Questions are formative AP 
questions that provide feedback to 
students on the areas where they 
need to focus. 
BIG 
IDEA 
1 
Creative 
Development 
10 hyphen 13 percentage AP Exam 
Weighting 
1 
6 
1.1 Collaboration 
1 
3 
4 
1.2 Program Function  
and Purpose 
1 
4 
6 
1.3 Program Design  
and Development 
1 
4 
1.4 Identifying and 
Correcting Errors 
Topic Questions 
Multiple-choice:Tilde 20questions 
BIG 
IDEA 
2 
Data 
17 hyphen 22 percentage AP Exam 
Weighting 
1 
2 
3 
2.1 Binary Numbers 
1 
2.2 Data Compression 
5 
2.3 Extracting Information 
from Data 
2 
5 
2.4 Us
=== PAGE 28 ===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
BIG 
IDEA 
3 
Algorithms and 
Programming 
30 hyphen 35 percentage  AP Exam 
Weighting 
3 
4 
3.1 Variables and 
Assignments 
3 
3.2 Data Abstraction 
2 
4 
3.3 Mathematical 
Expressions 
4 
3.4 Strings 
2 
4 
3.5 Boolean Expressions 
2 
4 
3.6 Conditionals 
2 
4 
3.7 Nested Conditionals 
2 
4 
3.8 Iteration 
1 
2 
3.9 Developing Algorithms 
2 
4 
3.10 Lists 
1 
3.11 Binary Search 
3 
4 
3.12 Calling Procedures 
3 
3.13 Developing Procedures 
2 
3.14 Libraries 
2 
4 
3.15 Random Values 
1 
3.16 Simulations 
1 
3.17 Algorithmic Efficiency 
1 
3.18 Undecidable Problems 
Topic Questions 
Multiple-choice:Tilde 90questions 
Performance Task: Tilde 20prompts 
BIG 
IDEA 
4 
Computer 
Systems and 
Networks 
11 hyphen 15 percentage AP Exam 
Weighting 
5 
4.1 The Internet 
1 
5 
4.2 Fault Tolerance 
1 
4.3 Parallel and Distributed 
Computing 
Topic Questions 
Multiple-choice:Tilde 10 questions 
BIG 
IDEA 
5 
Impact of 
Computing 
21 hyphen 26 percentage AP Exam 
Weighting 
5 
5.1 Beneficial and Harmful 
Effects 
5 
5.2 Digital Divide 
5 
5.3 Computing Bias 
1 
5.4 Crowdsourcing 
5 
5.5 Legal and Ethical 
Concerns 
5 
5.6 Safe Computing 
Topic Questions 
Multiple-choice: Tilde 20questions 
AP Computer Science Principles Course and Exam Description 
CourseFramework V.1 | 21 
Return to Table of Cont
© 2023 College Boar
ents 
d 

=== PAGE 29 ===
THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK. 

=== PAGE 30 ===
AP COMPUTER SCIENCE PRINCIPLES 
Big Idea  
Guides 
Designed with input from the community of AP Computer Science 
Principleseducators,thebigideaguidesofferallteachershelpful 
guidance in building students’ skills and knowledge. It is important to 
remember that big ideas are themes that run across the entire school year, 
rather than units of instruction. Within each big idea are topics. Teachers 
and AP endorsed providers can group topics together to create units or 
modules for instruction. In some cases, it may be appropriate for a topic to 
appear in more than one unit or module. 
AbenefitoftopicsisthattheyenabletheAPProgramtoprovide 
interested teachers with formative Topic Questions that they can assign to 
their students, either throughout a unit or module or at the end, to gauge 
progress toward success on the AP Exam. 
AP Computer Science Principles Course and Exam Description
   
CourseFramework V.1 | 23 
Return to Table of Contents 
© 2023 College Board 

